connectDB
1. The reason we start the server after mongodb connection is
to avoid errors incase the DB isn't ready. 
If you don’t use this structure and just run app.listen() without
DB connection, your server may start, but your routes that rely on the database will break.



Types of authentication:
1. Password-based authentication: Done
Just the basic one, like using email, password. Backend verifies grant access. Just using bcrypt. 

2. Token-based authentication(JWT):Done 
Instead of using sessions or cookies, we use a token(JWT token) to verify and authorize the user on each request. 
The token is stored on the client side like in locatstorage, cookies and sent with each request via authorization headers. 

complete workflow:
i. user sends login request 
ii. backend validate credentials 
iii. if credentials are valid, generate a JWT token using code like 
     const token = jwt. sign(
        {id: user_id, email: user.email},//payload
        process.env.JWT_SECRET,//secret key
        {expiresIn: "1h"}//token expirey
     )

This token is base64-encoded string with 3 parts. 
HEADER.PAYLOAD.SIGNATURE 

payload -- user info(except password)
the signature -- ensures the token was'nt tampered.

iv. send token to the client
return the token in the response like 
res.status(200).json({token});
the client will store this in local storage for SPA
or HttpOnly cookies -- for better security 

v. Client sends token on future requests 
client add this token to the authorization header like 
Authorization: Bearer eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...

every protected API call will now send this header.

vi. You will create a verifytoken middleware like 
vii. TOken expiry and re-login 

refresh token + access token:
1. User logs in server creates 2 tokens 
2. send both tokens to the client 
3. on each request client sends accessToken in authorization header. 
   server verifies token --> user gets data 

4. if access token expired, frontend sends refresh token to /refresh-token endpoint. 
Backend verifies refresh token and sends back a new access token. 

5. user stays logged in automatically. 

token rotation: 
refresh token gets renewed every time is is used. 



session vs cookies vs localStorage:
session: server-side memory for a logged-in user.
for example:
when you login to a site using express-session, the server stores your user info 
in a session, and gives you a session ID usually inside a cookie. 
your server now remembers who you are without needing a JWT> 

cookies: 
small files stored in the browser, sent with every request to the server. 
They are sent automatically with every HTTP request to teh backend.
You can mark them as 
HttpOnly -- server-only, can't be accessed by js 
Secure -- only sent on HTTPs
samesite -- control cross-site behaviour. 

used to store session id. 
JWT refresh tokens 
theme/preferences etc. 
cookie size ~ 4 kb 

localStorage: 
key-value storage built into the browser, accessible by Javascript 
used when you want to persist data between refreshes 
for things like:
--> Jwt access token 
--> app theme 
--> cart data 


3. Session-based auth:
Server stores used login info in memory (or DB) after login and gives the user 
a session ID in a cookie. 
The browser sends this cookie with every request, and the server checks:
"Does this session ID exist? is it valid?
if yes --> you are authorized 

working:
1. user logs in 
2. backend validate credentials 
   if valid server creates a session. 
   req.session.user = {
    id: user._id, 
    email: user.email, 
    role: user.role
   }

3. Server stores session internally 
   express-session creates a unique session-ID. It stores user info on the server. 
   In memory for dev 
   in redis/db for production 

4. servers sends session ID in a cookie. 
5. Future requests send the cookie automatically. 


4.OAuth: Third party
Open authorization -- lets your app access user data from another service without 
asking for their password. 
it is like saying: 

"Hey Google, can you tell me who this user is -- and if they allow it, 
send me some info about them?

working:
1. User clicks "login with google":
   Your frontend redirects the user to Google's Oauth consent screen. 
   They(Google) see a popup
   "This app wants to access your email and profile info. Allow?"

2. User clicks allow: 
Google redirects the user back to your app 
with a special authorization code: 
https://yourapp.com/auth/callback?code=Auth_code_here 

You have now a temporary authorization code. This code does not contain user info yet. 
It is just a key to request the real tokens. 


3. Your backend sends this code to google. 
   In return Google gives you: 
   access_token: used to access Google API git remote add origin https://github.com/Sas3380/Loginly.git
   
   id_token -- contain user info 
   expires_in -- how long token is valid

4. Your backend decodes the token  






5. OTP-based auth:
enter email etc. --> recieve a OTP -> enter to verify. 

6. Biometric authentication:
using faceID, fingerprint, retina scan. 

7. Magic link 
enter email --> recieve login link --> click to auto-login 
